This is a python implementation of the genetic algorithm Phase Retrieval by Omega Oscillation Filtering ([PROOF](https://opg.optica.org/oe/fulltext.cfm?uri=oe-18-12-13006&id=199923)) for retrieval of phases from an attosecond light pulse produced through high-harmonic generation which I developed in 2019. See [PROOF.ipnyb](PROOF.ipynb) for a detailed overview on the algorithm implementation and background physics details. The algorithm is meant for implementation on a local computer or high-performance computing cluster. Compared to previous PROOF implementations in the DiMauro research group, this algorithm has ~20x computing time decrease through usage of array calculations instead of element-wise calculations and roulette wheel selection implemented using the Vose alias method. The current efficiency bottleneck occurs in two places which I now have solutions for but need implementing:
1. Mutation of elements is currently done with a for loop as each child has a different slice length and position for mutation. This can be done using algorithms through building two masks of slice1 and slice2 indices and building new array out of two masks.
2. After every 100 generations, 10000 new population is supposed to be added. This step initially was not implemented as it too quickly upscaled the size of the population array. After conversations with Professor Michael Chini who helped develop PROOF, he clarified that the population array did not grow in size but instead the new populations were added in place of old populations (either randomly or based on fitness).
